I'm Claire Richardson welcome residents
of Gaza are rushing toward the Rafa
border crossing in the hopes of making
it across the Egyptian border human
rights groups have been calling for a
humanitarian ceasefire to allow safe
passage both for Aid and for people to
leave Gaza Egypt controls the Rafa
border crossing the only passage in and
out of Gaza that's not controlled by
Israel the Border was shut down nearly a
week
ago these people are rushing towards the
Rafa border crossing
hoping the gates will
open there is no safety even when you're
at the Crossing you're afraid on our way
to the crossing they shelled Rafa Street
we came thinking it was safe nowhere is
safe in Gaza wherever we go there's
shelling crying screaming and blood we
don't know what to do we're coming to
the crossing knowing they won't open it
no Aid either for 8 days I swear to God
no electricity no water no internet we
can't communicate or know what's going
on seriously this is not
alive media reports had prompted hope
that Cairo might open its border for
foreign passport holders there is no
confirmation yet and many people
desperate to leave Gaza are willing to
wait with few belongings their children
and
toddlers And I came to visit my
family my sister my brother
my and I just like before the world like
couple days and I want to spend like two
two weeks with my family here and enjoy
I enjoy here with the
w with the w they I can't sleep L of
bomb no water no food no nothing no no
life here no
life I don't know I don't know how they
thinking about people all all over the
world they they have like country people
live they go visit family they go
everywhere that's Gaza s in palestin
this is like they think there not people
here this people here this people here
live it's not
life and as people wait to leave on the
Gaza site eight supplies are stalled
inside Egypt but Egypt says the Border
opening was not possible because of
earlier Israeli a strikes on the Gaza
side Israel denies that any agreements
on eight or evacuation have been
reached and with no definitive answers
the wait for many of those trying to
flee might be
long Jason Lee from the charity save the
children joins me from rala in the West
Bank thank you for taking the time to
speak with us can you tell us what save
the children is doing to help children
in
Gaza
save the children we're trying to meet
the immediate needs of children now
despite the fact that my staff
themselves have been displaced and are
living in shelters in the South will
manage able to do some distributions
today again ensuring that water was
distributed some hygiene kits it is
difficult the situation is becoming it's
dire you have a more than 500,000 people
have fled in the South what conditions
are your staff reporting there in the
south
again you've got more than 500,000
people that have fled um numbers are
uncertain because we can't verify but
you have at least
275,000 people Sheltering in un schools
now these schools have
no food they've got no water um very no
electricity you've got maybe one wash
facility for thousands of people um so
it's the the conditions there are D not
only you mention that you're carrying
constant shelling so people that are
fleeing from areas that they were told
to evacuate from are still being shelled
they's still shelling and air stries
going
on and at this point is save the
children able to continue uh to get Aid
into Gaza I'm curious what the biggest
challenges are to actually getting it
into Gaza and providing it to the people
that need
it it's difficult because all entry
points to Gaza at the moment are closed
so the normal entry points that we use
from Israel is are closed Rua is closed
now with dwindling supplies in Gaza so
you've got a situation where Gaza is
running out of water Food Supplies are
low you don't have medicines that are
medic are basically running out if the
borders don't open if the crossings
don't open to allow humanitarians to
enter and to bring critical life-saving
Goods with us civilian death toll will
increase exponentially it's also
critical that all sides stop the
hostilities in order for us to deliver
Aid safely and for civilians to reach
safety and what do you think the
International Community should be doing
then I think the International Community
needs to realize the urgency of the
situation and the humanitarian crisis
that is looming and it's important that
we go back to a consistent rules-based
order where there is adherence to
international law that all sides have to
abide by it for save the children we
fundamentally believe that every right
should be afforded to every child all of
the time no matter who they are or where
they are we can't pick and choose which
rights to protect for which children and
in what times and what circumstances All
rights for all children all the time
everywhere thank you so much for joining
us that is Jason Lee from save the
children thank
you let's bring in Saleem ois
Communications officer at UNICEF Middle
East and North Africa for more on this
story um thank you so much for taking
the time to speak with us can you tell
us what your partners on the ground are
telling you about the situation in Gaza
right
now thank you CLA um the situation is as
as we heard from people themselves it's
catastrophic it's it's really the images
that we are seeing the stories that we
are hearing are horrific people are
struggling to uh to stay alive uh till
the hour I think uh uh what what we
could uh uh get reports of is over 720
children dead that's in 9 days that's
that's almost three kids an hour uh over
2,400 kids injured and those are only
the numbers that were reported uh to us
uh unfortunately the numbers might be
much uh uh much more um people are
living without water without electricity
this means that there's no uh uh no
clean uh uh water for children to drink
uh risking their their lives for the
hydration also the infrastructure for
water uh uh uh all the sanitation and
the sewage system is is is ruined and
that means that um they are they are
very uh uh on the verge of of waterbor
diseases um health systems are really in
a bad shape uh hospitals are running out
of fuel without electricity and without
fuel that means that they will not be
able to to uh deliver to their patients
and to the injured thousands of inured
people um they are overwhelmed with the
numbers and they can't uh keep up U the
situation overall is really horrific and
we are heading towards a humanitarian
catastrophe with more than 1 million
people um asked by Israel to move from
northern Gaza to the South can you tell
us what the situation is like there is
there a big difference between what is
happening in the north and south of Gaza
at the
moment well that's that's what that's
the thing we we we since they one we
said 1 million over 1 million people
asked to move to the
South the problem is there's no place
that is safe they don't have a place to
run to uh the South the south is not
safe for for for Children and Families
uh uh whether it's less or or uh better
in terms of violence but it's still not
safe
because the war is covering all of of
OFA violence is there and children and
families are not spared uh
infrastructure is not spared all around
and uh they don't have really they don't
have Prospect uh if if they moved well
thank you so much for taking the time to
speak with us today on DW news that is
Sim o with UNICEF we really appreciate
your
time